Mary Lay: Hello.
Kyle Smith: Hi, Mary.
Mary Lay: How are you
Kyle Smith: Are you. Hi, I'm Dr. Smith, how are you
Mary Lay: I'm fine, how about you.
Kyle Smith: Well, I'm good. Today I see we're already going to hit it off really well. You've got a golf hat on.
Kyle Smith: ru
Kyle Smith: ru ru golf or
Mary Lay: No, but I liked about caps.
Kyle Smith: I hear you. All right. Well, I'm married. I'm just real quick. Since we're we are doing this on via telemedicine. Go ahead and just tell me
Kyle Smith: Your name, date of birth, and your address, and we'll get started.
Mary Lay: Okay, it's a merry lie or 3010 3175 address is 192 lay hollow line on your duty 378 percent
Kyle Smith: Okay, thank you. And where tell me the name of the town. You're calling from again.
Mary Lay: And year
Kyle Smith: Pine
Kyle Smith: New Year.
Mary Lay: Yeah, it's
Kyle Smith: I'm originally from Chattanooga. I'm from Chattanooga, Tennessee. Originally, although I'm in Richmond, Virginia today, but I've never heard of that town.
Mary Lay: How about you know with all it
Kyle Smith: Knoxville all no yes yes yes yes
Mary Lay: And did you okay oil.
Kyle Smith: Yeah, kind of.
Mary Lay: What's the next action own up from Outlook politics it
Mary Lay: Okay amount like
Kyle Smith: Like towards going towards Virginia
Kyle Smith: Good job at one
Kyle Smith: Know what
Mary Lay: Go towards Kentucky.
Kyle Smith: Okay. Okay. All right.
Mary Lay: And you heard Jellicoe
Mary Lay: Yes. Okay, that's better. Guys closer to Me do the following.
Kyle Smith: I guess.
Mary Lay: It's ready to go through the mountains on it. Shy curvy road but
Kyle Smith: Yes, ma'am. You've been there all your life.
Mary Lay: A whole lot. Okay.
Kyle Smith: Who's there with you today.
Mary Lay: I'm one of our free husband boyfriend actually
Kyle Smith: OK, and it is it okay with you that he share our meeting today.
Mary Lay: Yeah, I don't mind.
Kyle Smith: Okay and I gather that he's someone that supports you through through what you're going through now.
Mary Lay: Is it, sir.
Kyle Smith: Okay, very good. Well, Mary. I'm Dr. Smith. I'm primarily an anesthesiologist
Kyle Smith: Which is my day job, but I've been doing Addiction Medicine taking care of folks for about five or six years. I really believe in the method of medication assisted treatment.
Kyle Smith: We'll talk about a little
Kyle Smith: We'll talk about that at the end. This is an initial visit initial history and physical or intake, what you call it where I get a
Kyle Smith: Medical history from you.
Kyle Smith: And figure out what your what your aim is what your goals are and and see if they want up with with bright heart health, and what we do here and and we'll just we'll just kind of take it from there.
Kyle Smith: Just tell me briefly.
Kyle Smith: How, how did you find us and and what's your motivation for being here today.
Mary Lay: Well, I'm afraid of on referred to you. The third year, actually. And just to have a normal life in boxes really keep you from being out there on the street and stuff, you know,
Okay.
Mary Lay: Better
Mary Lay: Quality of life with them.
Kyle Smith: I agree. I agree. Tell me, how long have you been taking Suboxone
Mary Lay: Often over about two years.
Mary Lay: Okay, I was being prescribed by the doctor. Of course, you know, and then lost my job. It wasn't able to go
Mary Lay: Home. We got another job. I got back into the clinic, but now we're we're having this Irish thing.
Mary Lay: Yeah, laid off work and no transportation so
Mary Lay: Okay.
Kyle Smith: So this is a good, good.
Kyle Smith: This is a good fit. Tell me you're telling me your, your history with
Kyle Smith: With drugs and pain pills. If you have any
Mary Lay: I have a big history. I got cancer when I was about 20 Don
Mary Lay: Goodness, they give me oxy cotton 40s.
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Mary Lay: And it's been downhill ever since.
Kyle Smith: Okay, what kind of cancer.
Mary Lay: And breast cancer. Thank
Kyle Smith: Goodness. Well, you're a you're a miracle.
Mary Lay: And I made I made it.
Kyle Smith: So yeah, did you have a sec to me.
Mary Lay: Yeah, devil bilateral
Kyle Smith: Okay, and they prescribed you pain pills. After that surgery.
Mary Lay: Oh sure, sure.
Mary Lay: Okay, before and after surgery and not during the whole treatment, you know,
Mary Lay: I'm a while, you know, I did a lot of
Mary Lay: Okay, healing, how much
Kyle Smith: How much were you taken, of course.
Mary Lay: And I think I was taking like 340 hours a day, and I was
Mary Lay: Like
Mary Lay: A breakthrough field Percocet, TN as a van and
Mary Lay: Ron and I was all kinds of medications or
Kyle Smith: Daily basis.
Mary Lay: Yeah. And then after that I went to Japan.
Mary Lay: And after that, you know, which industry. Sure, yeah.
Kyle Smith: Sure. When you couldn't when you couldn't get the prescription. What kind of pain, where you have and where it was it was it incision pain or was it pain, pain in your pectoral muscles are just all of it.
Mary Lay: It's just even just real bad luck is pulled really extremely tight.
Mary Lay: Like the scores are real time because I didn't get to have the reconstructive
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Mary Lay: The radiation just did too much damage again.
Kyle Smith: Okay, so you had radiation after the surgery.
Mary Lay: Oh yeah and dear, it will add here the chemo. Yeah.
Kyle Smith: Okay. So you went through it all. All right.
Mary Lay: The idea.
Kyle Smith: Okay. All right. And so you kind of got to the point where you needed to take the pain medicine every day. And if you didn't you had withdrawal symptoms.
Mary Lay: Yes, sir.
Kyle Smith: Did you build a Pretty, pretty good tolerance.
Mary Lay: Is a really bad.
Kyle Smith: What kind of withdrawal symptoms would
Kyle Smith: Would you have
Mary Lay: Huh.
Kyle Smith: What kind of withdrawal symptoms, would you have
Mary Lay: Oh, the diarrhea. The throwing up his shake is the phrase it this way, water, yes.
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Mary Lay: I went through it.
Kyle Smith: Okay. Um, and you think when you were taking the most the highest doses of your oxy cotton, you were taking you were taken. What did you say 340s and then percocet breakthrough.
Mary Lay: Yeah, then the values
Kyle Smith: On top of that, okay, that's pretty
Mary Lay: Pretty high dose morphing
Kyle Smith: Okay morphing to okay
Mary Lay: Yeah, so
Kyle Smith: All right.
Kyle Smith: And then when you wouldn't have. And then when you couldn't get them. You said you would go to the streets and buy whatever you could get
Mary Lay: Yeah, pretty much, sir.
Kyle Smith: Okay, um, any IV drug use.
Kyle Smith: Or thing. Okay.
Kyle Smith: Ever had an overdose.
Kyle Smith: No, sir. Okay, ever used any methadone.
Mary Lay: Yes, sir. When I was pregnant. I actually got pregnant or last treatment with my little girl.
Mary Lay: Wow. Yeah.
Okay.
Kyle Smith: Well you in a methadone clinic at that point.
Mary Lay: Yes sir, yes sir, I don't think we're I was taking their medicine, you know, the chemo and zapping
Mary Lay: Yeah pregnant. Actually, it was a her sensitive, but there's there yet not been long before that. So I was still on pain medication. So then I went to events. Don't make this program.
Kyle Smith: Okay. And when's the last time you use methadone.
Mary Lay: My daughter is two years old. So I'd say about nine years ago.
Kyle Smith: Okay, okay, and no recent methadone use
Mary Lay: No recent methadone. No.
Mary Lay: Okay.
Mary Lay: What about other really trying to stay in which the box and services a lot better quality of life, as I said, stayed to a clinic, but I'm not gonna lie I have had a relapse is, you know,
Kyle Smith: Okay. All right.
Kyle Smith: Any other drug use.
Kyle Smith: Cocaine methamphetamine.
Kyle Smith: Heroin
Mary Lay: I don't know, sir.
Mary Lay: Marijuana. Yes, Sir. Sir,
Kyle Smith: Okay, when was that when was the first time you use drugs. Sometimes it's important to to go back and look at those circumstances.
Mary Lay: And never taken any paying bills and talk about that cancer.
Kyle Smith: Okay, what about what about early on drug use, like just, you know, marijuana as a
Mary Lay: teenager's little pot.
Kyle Smith: As a teenager.
Mary Lay: Yeah, that was it. That was it.
Kyle Smith: Okay. All right. Um,
Kyle Smith: When was your last opiate years. When did you take something last
Mary Lay: I'm not taking it in that I don't know, three months because I got back, you did the clue to get there.
Mary Lay: And I think of us the box into the AM.
Kyle Smith: You know, go with
Mary Lay: Those jobs.
Kyle Smith: Later, okay, um, any benzo use like value or add a man
Mary Lay: has in the past, but I don't do
Mary Lay: Non recently there was no
Mary Lay: It was just an option. I mean just every now.
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Kyle Smith: And so you so you haven't had one was the last time you had any Suboxone
Mary Lay: Um I script from that day.
Mary Lay: Today and the medicine today.
Kyle Smith: Okay, and what what what's your dose.
Mary Lay: To two tablets a day.
Kyle Smith: 16 milligrams
Kyle Smith: Easter. Okay. And that's Suboxone that's the combination. Is it a film.
Mary Lay: Now, I had two tablets.
Kyle Smith: Okay. All right.
Kyle Smith: Um, and tell me about this clinic you ran. Is it intimacy.
Mary Lay: Yeah, it's an O Nana after she
Kyle Smith: Okay. All right. Did they have to close the clinic down or they just weren't able to see new patients.
Kyle Smith: And see continue seeing patients.
Mary Lay: Hours available to
Mary Lay: Pay for it before mind employment became available to okay because I don't have any fears of having to self pay
Mary Lay: Okay, right.
Kyle Smith: And were they were you doing any counseling or just the Suboxone
Mary Lay: Oh no, I was against them.
Okay.
Kyle Smith: And was that like once a week or twice a week.
Mary Lay: Okay.
Kyle Smith: What other medications are you taking besides the two Suboxone tablets a day.
Mary Lay: Okay, listen up real
Kyle Smith: For high blood pressure.
Kyle Smith: Yeah, what's the dose on that Dino 2020
Mary Lay: Milligrams once a day.
Kyle Smith: Once a day. Okay, any allergies to medicine.
Kyle Smith: No, sir. Okay. And other than the high blood pressure. Any other medical problems like coronary disease, heart attack, heart failure stents pacemakers.
Kyle Smith: And it really okay a rhythm is
Kyle Smith: an irregular heartbeats.
Diabetes.
Kyle Smith: Asthma. COPD.
Mary Lay: No.
Mary Lay: Smoking maybe attached you COPD, because I do smoke.
Okay.
Kyle Smith: kidney or liver failure. Well,
Mary Lay: You know, I said I hit Save that ticket.
Kyle Smith: Right, you did. Okay. Okay.
Mary Lay: So as I said before my body said no more, but
Mary Lay: I tested and they say that it's not showing up at thing.
Kyle Smith: Your viral viral load is very, very low. Almost undetectable. Okay.
Kyle Smith: Just hepatitis C, no hepatitis B.
Mary Lay: I don't think so, sir.
Okay.
Kyle Smith: And you said no diabetes. What about other blood disease like anemia or
Kyle Smith: Or blood clots. Okay. Do you take iron pills or
Mary Lay: I tried said take every day but I tried to take themselves.
Kyle Smith: Yeah, okay. Ever had a blood transfusion.
Mary Lay: Yes, sir.
Kyle Smith: During was that during pregnancy or what was that
Mary Lay: Yeah, I had, I was pregnant and Memphis interrupted early
Kyle Smith: Okay, okay.
Mary Lay: What time and then the day she was born into a lot
Kyle Smith: Okay, okay, um, any, any arthritis rheumatoid arthritis muscle or joint disease that you know of
Mary Lay: I think I'm clear there.
Kyle Smith: Okay stroke seizure disorder.
No.
Kyle Smith: skin conditions.
Kyle Smith: Eczema and
Kyle Smith: Any stomach problems ulcer disease acid reflux.
Kyle Smith: Um, any gynecologic disease.
Kyle Smith: And you just ate. You've been pregnant once in one one child.
Mary Lay: No, no, I got you.
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Or alive.
Mary Lay: Well, there was born alive, but I had to pass away.
Kyle Smith: Okay, I'm sorry to hear that.
Kyle Smith: And have you been in the hospital recently been admitted to the hospital.
Kyle Smith: Yes or no. What about psychiatric history like depression or anxiety or bipolar.
Mary Lay: That Zadie
That I
Mary Lay: Know like you're not
Kyle Smith: Sure they
Kyle Smith: Often coexist coexisting they often go together.
Kyle Smith: Often go together with addiction.
Kyle Smith: No thoughts of harming yourself or harming someone else.
Mary Lay: No, sir. President
Kyle Smith: Okay, what about surgeries in the past.
Mary Lay: I've had a table.
Okay, I get
Mary Lay: That bilateral
mastectomy.
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Mary Lay: And then let's bury it.
Kyle Smith: Yes, ma'am, yes ma'am. Tell me about your family, family medical history and and substance use history to mother, father, brother, sister.
Mary Lay: My dad drink.
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Mary Lay: He's passed it. And he said,
Kyle Smith: Okay, about your other
Mary Lay: Moms was a homemaker she never did that did not get to share Tiki it
Mary Lay: Wow. And I think maybe besides drinking it every now and then they really don't have a problem.
Kyle Smith: Brothers and sisters,
Kyle Smith: Yeah, okay.
Mary Lay: As drink a little bit maybe every new
Kyle Smith: Okay. Um, what about your grandparents, you know, any, any significant substance abuse.
Mary Lay: Oh, no, no, Lord. Now,
Kyle Smith: What about aunts, uncles, cousins. Anybody have drug related problems.
Mary Lay: You uncle's network.
Mary Lay: At the holidays and did that pain medication.
Kyle Smith: Okay. All right. Um,
Kyle Smith: Let's see. I think I hear a little 10 year old running around back there.
Kyle Smith: Okay, and you mentioned
Kyle Smith: That
Kyle Smith: You've got some there. Is it a significant other. Thus there with you. Are you are you in a relationship, are you single, married
Mary Lay: I'm saying, God, but we just really close friends, I guess you would say
Okay.
Kyle Smith: Are you divorced
Mary Lay: I got married. Well done for six weeks. Does that count.
Kyle Smith: All right.
Kyle Smith: And you got
Kyle Smith: Any you've got you've got five living children.
Mary Lay: Yeah for leaving would pass away.
Kyle Smith: Okay, okay.
Kyle Smith: Any alcohol use at all.
Kyle Smith: Okay, do it.
Kyle Smith: Okay, how much are you smoking.
Mary Lay: And I have to pack to pack a day.
Kyle Smith: Okay, and tell me what what you were doing for work before coven 19 hit and you were
Kyle Smith: Like, oh, I was like yours.
Kyle Smith: Were at a restaurant.
Mary Lay: Shouted yeah
Kyle Smith: Okay. All right. And that was going that was going. Okay.
Mary Lay: Oh yes, doing really good making good tips doing real good.
Kyle Smith: Yeah. Wow, did the show needs have to shut down miscellaneous
Mary Lay: Idea, they should open yet.
Mary Lay: Gosh, yes, there
Kyle Smith: Is it their intention to try to try to open back up when some of the restrictions are
Mary Lay: I'm assuming. So from what I understand, they are, but I'm not going to email them. The last few days, so I'm not sure. Okay. Okay.
Kyle Smith: And is that your intent to try to go back and work there once.
Mary Lay: Oh, yes, sir, I gotta go back to learn
Kyle Smith: Okay. All right.
Kyle Smith: Times.
Mary Lay: It was time on your hands gets you in trouble.
Kyle Smith: That's right. I don't. What do they say about idle hands right
Mary Lay: Yes, yes, yes.
Kyle Smith: Okay, well, do me a favor here. I want you to take your hat off for me. We're going to try to do our best. Our best physical exam that we can do here.
Kyle Smith: Telemedicine
Kyle Smith: Trust me sweetie, I, I've seen a lot
Mary Lay: I've seen a lot
Kyle Smith: And then what we'll do, what we'll do first is I'm just going to have you take your glasses off and try to hold our you hold you have a phone or a computer, hold it close to your eyes. I'm gonna have you close your eyes.
Kyle Smith: Okay. And then, on the count of three. I'm gonna have you open them up. I'll hold it down just a little bit, just a tad. Yeah, there you go. And on the count of three. Just open them up. I'm
Mary Lay: Just take a look at your peoples ready 123
open them up.
Kyle Smith: Okay, very good. Okay.
Mary Lay: Sorry, there's a horn going off over here.
Kyle Smith: There you go. That's all right, open them up now.
Mary Lay: You see me, it's so broad, that's why I got sunglasses.
Kyle Smith: That's fine, that's fine.
Kyle Smith: Can you open your mouth for me. Let me see. Okay. Stick your tongue out good shrug your shoulders.
Kyle Smith: All right. Nod your head.
Kyle Smith: Good back and forth. All right. All right.
Kyle Smith: You make a fist with both hands.
Mary Lay: Show me your show me your forearms and your, your help on the inside.
Mary Lay: Yes, ma'am, yes.
Mary Lay: Sir,
Kyle Smith: Yep, perfect. Let me see the end. Let me see the insides.
Kyle Smith: Like this. Yep, there you go. Okay. All right, and your legs are working. Okay. Any
Kyle Smith: Any rashes.
Mary Lay: Now, maybe I should have run with my legs. They said for that you know that step hurts intervened in your legs.
Mary Lay: Neuropathy yeah yeah
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Kyle Smith: All right.
Mary Lay: Well, I will add that to your
Kyle Smith: Medical history.
Kyle Smith: And
Mary Lay: You
Kyle Smith: Can you can you take. Can you take a big deep breath.
Kyle Smith: And hold it in and then blow it out.
Kyle Smith: Okay. All right. And you don't do us any inhalers at home.
Kyle Smith: Yes, sir. Okay. And if you press on you if you press on your belly.
Kyle Smith: All the way around like 10 o'clock the feeling any masses any pain any nausea anything strange no
Okay, good.
Kyle Smith: One more, one more little exercise here. Can you, I want you to find your pulse either here.
Kyle Smith: Or in your wrist. You know how to do that.
Mary Lay: Yeah, we found
Kyle Smith: OK, OK. And then I'm
Kyle Smith: Okay, I'm going to time it and we're going to get an estimate of what your heart rate is. Are you ready
Mary Lay: Yeah, we can't debate.
Kyle Smith: No, no. Yeah, yeah, you count and I'm gonna
Kyle Smith: Yeah, I'm not ready. On your mark, get set, go.
Kyle Smith: Stop. Okay. Would you get
Kyle Smith: 23 okay
Kyle Smith: All right.
Mary Lay: Good or bad
Kyle Smith: Perfect.
Mary Lay: Thank you.
All right.
Kyle Smith: All right.
Kyle Smith: Now I'm just gonna run. These are called. This is called a review of systems. I'm just gonna kind of go head to toe and ask you if you if you felt felt anything weird
Kyle Smith: And this, this is just this is not something we have to do every time.
Kyle Smith: One second. Hello.
Kyle Smith: So I'm Mary any headache.
Mary Lay: No, sir. No, sir.
Kyle Smith: Fever, night sweats chills.
Mary Lay: No.
Kyle Smith: Have you been abnormally fatigue or tired recently.
Mary Lay: No, not really. Okay.
Mary Lay: Yeah.
Kyle Smith: Weight gain or weight loss.
Mary Lay: I don't know I'm not the same size for years. Yeah.
Kyle Smith: Okay, loss of appetite.
Mary Lay: Oh, no.
Kyle Smith: Okay, are you eating more than usual.
Mary Lay: No more than usual. I'll just like to eat.
Kyle Smith: What's your favorite food.
Mary Lay: I would say mashed potatoes and gravy creamed corn. Corn bread as a first conversion tomatoes.
Kyle Smith: That sounds amazing.
sounds amazing.
Kyle Smith: All right. Um, any changes in your vision. Any pain in your eyes. Any blurriness in your eyes.
Mary Lay: Read
Mary Lay: Like a little blurry but I think I need to go get my eyes checked, so I'm
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Mary Lay: I'm really bad and
Mary Lay: I'm hoping to get that done. But then we're all that's going on. They don't really want nobody in the office.
Kyle Smith: Yeah, you're right.
Kyle Smith: What about your ear problems.
Kyle Smith: Here I trouble trouble hearing any bleeding from your ears any ringing in your ears.
Kyle Smith: Any problems with your nose. Any runny nose, bleeding from your nose.
Mary Lay: Only time I've noses. Run it is if I'm rich round.
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Mary Lay: All right, thank God for but I'm just being honest. Yeah.
Kyle Smith: No, no, no, that's, that's good.
Kyle Smith: And then what about SWAT. What about your throat. Any pain when you swallow.
Kyle Smith: Sore throat
Kyle Smith: What about stiff neck pain in your in the back of your neck.
Kyle Smith: That he had any
Kyle Smith: Any COUGH OR ANY TROUBLE BREATHING recently.
Kyle Smith: Chest pain, shortness of breath, wheezing abnormal heartbeats.
Kyle Smith: And you said no pain in your belly.
Kyle Smith: You're saying, What about vomiting, diarrhea,
Mary Lay: Bleeding. No, no, no.
Kyle Smith: Okay, goosebumps rashes cuts, bruises on your anywhere on your arms or legs.
Mary Lay: No, sir.
Kyle Smith: Okay, what's your mental status right now. The. Have you had any episodes of strange were recently where you've been confused or agitated anxious, depressed.
Mary Lay: Sad.
Mary Lay: Just, you know, I really good. I just real bad especially
Mary Lay: If people are
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Mary Lay: You know, trying to tap the nervous wreck after you
Kyle Smith: Know you shouldn't be really, you shouldn't be hopefully we can
Kyle Smith: Be can work on that as we as we go through.
Kyle Smith: I try to tell all my patients that you know it is really a judgment free zone.
Kyle Smith: And our main goal is to help you feel better and get better and see you do well. So you get back to work and
Kyle Smith: Improve your life. I really, I really feel that way.
Mary Lay: Yeah, and that's that medicine is definitely
Mary Lay: Say it's made my life better is, I don't know. It was how to say it, you know, this is the quality of life to doing things to going places went out and a donut shop and I mean you could do it on the street, looking for stuff you do
Kyle Smith: Yeah yeah
Kyle Smith: And I think
Kyle Smith: And we'll talk about it more in a minute. But I think this medicine really allows people who are high functioning to
Kyle Smith: Really have a life they're not
Kyle Smith: tied to a clinic.
Kyle Smith: And they're not they're not constantly trying to go out and buy, you know, worry about where the next dose of medicines coming from
Kyle Smith: And
You know,
Mary Lay: But
Kyle Smith: I'll get to that a minute. I got a couple more things to do here. We did the pulse. We did this is called a cow scale or so withdrawal scale. So your heart rate was pulse rate was 92. So that puts you at a one there for pulse. Are you having any sweating.
Mary Lay: No, no, I had like I said it run out today. So I had my medicine today.
Kyle Smith: This morning. Okay. Are you feeling, you said you're feeling still feeling pretty anxious, though.
Mary Lay: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay.
Kyle Smith: All right. Um, any muscle aches bone aches joint aches.
Mary Lay: And the I do, I do. And just take some ibuprofen and go
Kyle Smith: Okay. All right. Your, your stomach upset right now.
Kyle Smith: No. Okay. Do you have a tremor. You know what a tremor is
Mary Lay: OK. OK.
Kyle Smith: Nervous shake. Yeah.
Kyle Smith: Yeah, hold your hand up. Let me see.
Kyle Smith: Okay. Not too bad.
Kyle Smith: What about yawning.
Mary Lay: Now,
Kyle Smith: Okay, goosebumps.
Kyle Smith: Now, okay, and this is this is called a
Kyle Smith: DSM five
Kyle Smith: opiate disorder worksheet. So I just want you to answer yes or no to these questions.
Kyle Smith: Have you taken opioids in larger amounts for a longer period of time than you meant to
Mary Lay: Yeah.
Kyle Smith: Do you have a persistent desire to cut down
Kyle Smith: On your opiate use
Mary Lay: User Jacqueline oh
OK.
Kyle Smith: And then have you spent a lot of time and money.
Kyle Smith: going after those opiates.
Mary Lay: Yeah, used to you. Yeah, the first box, you know. Yeah.
Kyle Smith: Yeah.
Mary Lay: The House car and all kinds of stuff.
Kyle Smith: Yeah, yeah. Um, have you had cravings for opiates in the past.
Mary Lay: I have you
Mary Lay: Have not
Kyle Smith: Have you used. Have you used opiates and dangerous situations.
Mary Lay: Places.
Kyle Smith: Yeah.
Kyle Smith: Yeah, because it
Kyle Smith: Has it as it cause as it cause problems at home, problems with the relationship problems at work problems with with the law.
Mary Lay: Again with everyone.
Yeah.
Kyle Smith: And have you continued to use opiates, despite the knowledge of having a persistent or recurrent physical or psychological problem.
Kyle Smith: That is likely to have been caused or exacerbated by opioids.
Mary Lay: And kill Suboxone I think
Mary Lay: To me like
All right.
Kyle Smith: Would you say you have tolerance to opioids built up over the years where you've had to take more to achieve the same effect.
Mary Lay: Yo, yes. Yes. You know, I know, dude.
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Kyle Smith: And we talked about the withdrawal. We talked about the winter, all in the past.
Kyle Smith: And the symptoms that you've had. Okay. All right. Well, I know that's that's
Kyle Smith: Sorry, there is
Kyle Smith: There. Okay, this, this first meeting takes it takes a takes a minute.
Kyle Smith: And I'm sure you've been there before. If you were in the
Kyle Smith: If you were if you were in the other clinic.
Kyle Smith: And then tell me your, your course of treatment there at the at the clinic.
Kyle Smith: Where you live.
Kyle Smith: Are you going there once a month.
Mary Lay: I was going there once a month. Yeah.
Okay.
Kyle Smith: And and then he would write you a month worth of
Suboxone
Kyle Smith: And you were taking the 16 milligrams
Mary Lay: A day. Yes. Okay.
Kyle Smith: And
Kyle Smith: And I got to ask any
Kyle Smith: Any problems in that clinic at all. Did you have any relapses. What's your longest period of being clean
Kyle Smith: And I include being I include taking Suboxone as being clean
Okay.
Mary Lay: I have relapsed about six months ago.
Mary Lay: Okay, and then some stuff, like I said,
Mary Lay: Not brought up that I got back into the clinic.
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Mary Lay: My longest time and being sober.
Mary Lay: Was probably about three years.
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Mary Lay: And said, that's it.
Kyle Smith: No three years. That's great. That's really good. So you've been taking again Suboxone for five years and it were you in this. Have you been in the same clinic.
Mary Lay: For five years now. I've been taking Suboxone from the clinic for the last probably two years.
Mary Lay: Okay, or before about them off the
Mary Lay: Street for about a year.
Kyle Smith: Okay, okay any problems or side effects.
No.
Mary Lay: No.
Kyle Smith: Okay. All right. Well, um,
Kyle Smith: I
Kyle Smith: I really think we can help you and I'm glad you've come. I think, I think this is a perfect fit for the situation that we find ourselves in. Now with the code crisis and
Kyle Smith: Having you know a lot of folks who don't have access to care and have lost their jobs and
Kyle Smith: You know, run the risk of
Kyle Smith: Having relapse and potentially really
Kyle Smith: Bad things happening.
So you
Mary Lay: Have a child is happening is in losing your job is that is because a relapse.
Kyle Smith: Yeah.
Mary Lay: It was that about it. Yeah.
Kyle Smith: Yeah, it's causing a lot of people, a lot of worry and I know you know even folks who are in treatment, it causes a lot of worry too because they don't know if they're going to be able to get their medicine. And I know that's a big deal.
Mary Lay: Yeah, that
Mary Lay: Was really worried about not getting there. Yeah.
Kyle Smith: Have they haven't done this for a while. I know people get real worked up about that. Well, it sounds like you know you're one of those success stories.
Kyle Smith: A ban on on Suboxone and going through medication assisted treatment, which is what we call it am at the combination of the medicine and the counseling is really the gold standard for treating opioid dependency.
Kyle Smith: And that's what all of our medical research and literature says right now that if you take medicine and you do some counseling, you've got a very, very, very good chance to stay in treatment and stay alive. And that's why we're doing it.
Now,
Mary Lay: Tony said seven and he ain't got on the badge drink that for a while.
Kyle Smith: Yeah, I'm
Mary Lay: Actually a drug counselor now and
Mary Lay: Yeah.
Wow.
Mary Lay: Yes, it does. Yeah, yeah.
Kyle Smith: Did he get was he did he do MIT did he do Suboxone clinic as well.
Mary Lay: No. No, he didn't. He just quit and
Kyle Smith: A quite
Mary Lay: A while and went to jail for a few months, and then
Mary Lay: After that, even
Mary Lay: Though he's doing great. I'm very
Kyle Smith: Good.
Kyle Smith: Of course, you know, there are other options out there. I'm obliged to to, you know, to bring those up you know about methadone men and Methadone clinics before you know about abstinence only where you basically cold turkey. Try to try to quit and we know, we know the six
Kyle Smith: Very not very good there.
Kyle Smith: And then of course you know 12 step programs are in there somewhere, as well. But as I said I think MIT combining the use of medication and counseling, I think is the best
Kyle Smith: Um, let's see you, you know, the effects of the Suboxone the Suboxone is a combination of the two drugs that the buprenorphine and the no locks on
Kyle Smith: The buprenorphine acts like other opiates and goes into your to your body and and binds to those opiate receptors and keep them quiet keeps you from going in into withdrawal keeps you going and having cravings.
Kyle Smith: It, it, it's not a great pain medicine, but it's but it prevents the withdrawal and it prevents the cravings.
Kyle Smith: And it doesn't doesn't doesn't have the same high or the same effect.
Kyle Smith: As, as some of the other opiates, it's a it's a partial opiate
Mary Lay: Yeah, but it
Mary Lay: keeps you alive.
Mary Lay: You got
Kyle Smith: That and that yeah you're right. And of course if you've been you've been taken tablets. You know that they go, you know, they go under your tongue and they dissolve.
Kyle Smith: The way that I counsel patients on how to take the medicine is to let it dissolve under the tongue for five minutes and then let it absorb for five minutes.
Kyle Smith: And that's how the medicine gets it goes straight into the bloodstream and has its effect within 30 minutes to an hour.
Kyle Smith: And then
Mary Lay: you tag it like the same time every day to
Kyle Smith: You know, I think, ideally, ideally what I tell patients on the first our first visit
Kyle Smith: The way that the medication. The way that, so actually meant to be taken is just like you take your Lisinopril once a day.
Kyle Smith: The idea is that if you take it once a day, you know, over the course of about, you know, three to five to seven days. If you're someone who's just starting the medicine. Gradually the blood levels build up.
Kyle Smith: Until all of the receptors in your body at your all of the opiate receptors that that you've built up are filled and happy.
Kyle Smith: And and if you take it at the same time every day. Your body gets into a cycle and maintains that even blood level of medicine and that's that's obviously, you know,
Kyle Smith: Some people don't like to do it that way. But that's the way the medication is intended to be used.
Kyle Smith: Um,
Kyle Smith: What else
Kyle Smith: Oh, while I'm thinking about it and I mentioned your Lisinopril. Do you have a primary care doctor
Mary Lay: Yeah, I got a mountain people's actually and
Mary Lay: I lost my insurance. So I just go to this little clinic making dollars.
Mary Lay: Okay, to be wrong. I'll go there.
Mary Lay: Okay. They've got my history too so
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Mary Lay: All right.
Kyle Smith: What's the name of that clinic.
Mary Lay: Is round tables in normal
Kyle Smith: Okay, now people's okay and then what was the name of the of the Suboxone clinic, you were going
To
Mary Lay: Oh shoot, I think, was the name of that.
Mary Lay: Now he can't hear. Her name is Dr. Oh, she's cleaning
Mary Lay: Mom full recovery.
Mary Lay: I know it was something we're good real good. Remember the first day.
Kyle Smith: Mindful Rudy.
Mary Lay: Recovery. Yes.
Kyle Smith: Alright, I'm
Kyle Smith: Alright, so, so you said you hadn't had any side effects from the Suboxone know nausea no constipation.
Kyle Smith: No headaches.
Kyle Smith: Those are the most common
Kyle Smith: Now,
Mary Lay: When I take them three apps, I get a headache. So the tablets.
Kyle Smith: Oh, OK. OK, so the tablets don't give you a headache.
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Mary Lay: Sometimes like there's Suboxone Milos ticket. Miss damage to my they said that they had a different kind of
Mary Lay: Savvy tech or SMS, that's for pregnant people you know when they
Kyle Smith: Said, yeah, we usually
Kyle Smith: We usually reserve that for pregnant women. Speaking of which, are you taking any birth control.
Mary Lay: I had a table.
Kyle Smith: At a tubal ligation. Okay. Alright, well, we'll, we'll
Kyle Smith: We'll, we'll do it. We were required by law to pregnancy test anyways because because there is a risk of the meloxicam having an effect and negative impact on any
Kyle Smith: Any fetus. Okay.
Mary Lay: That positive I'm Jordan mercy.
Kyle Smith: Immaculate Conception.
Kyle Smith: All right, well, I've also got to mention it while we're talking about risk of the medicine. There's rare risk that it would cause an elevation in your liver enzymes.
And there's
Kyle Smith: There's a chance that if you try to take other opiates while you're taking the Suboxone have a condition called precipitated withdraw.
Kyle Smith: Which is like if you tried to take some Percocet.
Mary Lay: Well done.
Kyle Smith: Yeah, it just and it's real bad at last for weeks and weeks.
Kyle Smith: We don't, we don't want you to take any other opiates while you're taking
Kyle Smith: That's why we asked about the Methadone as well.
Kyle Smith: We also ask that you not use any Ben's those
Mary Lay: Okay, okay.
Kyle Smith: I'm not use any Ben's owes while you're
Kyle Smith: While you're taking Suboxone no alcohol.
Kyle Smith: And no other illegal.
Kyle Smith: Drugs. Okay.
Kyle Smith: Right heart health.
Kyle Smith: As part of the medication.
Kyle Smith: assisted treatment.
Kyle Smith: Will get you into a counseling group.
Kyle Smith: Of people who are kind of going through the same thing. And at some point.
Kyle Smith: When we have enough patience to get to get you, together with them. We'll, we'll meet
Kyle Smith: I think it's once a week.
Kyle Smith: And and go through some things risk mitigation strategies, trying to prevent relapse. Probably a lot of the things that you've, you've heard before.
Mary Lay: Because you have done some counseling.
Kyle Smith: I think it's important to do counseling. I think the medicine helps you feel better. And I think the counseling helps you think about addiction and how to avoid relapse.
Kyle Smith: So,
Kyle Smith: What else, um, we do urine drug screens during pregnancy screens. We ask that you have you had any blood work in the last year.
Mary Lay: Yeah, mountain people's
Kyle Smith: Okay, I wonder if we could get in contact with them to get that. So that would save you. That would save you a couple books and
Kyle Smith: And if it's got what we need. We can just have them facts that over
Kyle Smith: Would that be okay. Would that be okay with you.
Mary Lay: Yeah, I think on the morrow and
Mary Lay: I might have
Mary Lay: Sounded released
Kyle Smith: Yeah, you may have to, or the shoot. Yeah. I wonder if there be a way around it.
Kyle Smith: Says he can't. He probably can't go to the clinic his clinic open
Mary Lay: I don't think so. Okay, now that you mention it, I don't know what I was thinking when I said I just go down are satisfied her
Kyle Smith: Yeah, I know. Well, it's a it's a strange it's a strange time
Kyle Smith: For sure.
Kyle Smith: Yeah, I'm in the mountain people's clinic. Do they does someone prescribe the Lisinopril there because I looked on your
Mary Lay: I looked on your it
Kyle Smith: You get they give it to you there.
Mary Lay: At them method shoot boxing gleaning
Kyle Smith: They give you the Lisinopril
Mary Lay: Yeah, the listening prayer yeah doctor would prescribe them for me.
Kyle Smith: Okay. And when was your last prescription for the Suboxone
Mary Lay: And it run out today.
Kyle Smith: You know what, so so he wrote it about a month ago.
Mary Lay: Yeah, let me look at the bottle guy.
Okay.
Mary Lay: Here's a new job.
Mary Lay: What's the date on that.
Mary Lay: For 1720 I'm a few days. I don't
Okay.
Mary Lay: Don't run out do ladies what the
Mary Lay: 14th drop
Kyle Smith: Today is the 14th. Yeah.
So,
I'm sorry.
Kyle Smith: Okay, so you've got you've got until the 16th.
Kyle Smith: Yes. Okay.
Kyle Smith: All right.
Kyle Smith: And of course, Mayor we you know we
Kyle Smith: We will
Kyle Smith: What I probably do Mary is
Kyle Smith: Since since you
Kyle Smith: Since you've been in a clinic.
Kyle Smith: Before what I'll have you do is I'm going to see you next Tuesday, just to make sure everything's set and have used to at least do urine pregnancy and a urine drug screen.
Kyle Smith: So I can look at that and then we'll probably push your next appointment after next Tuesday will push it out two weeks and then hopefully we can get you on a monthly kind of schedule. The way that the way that you were on before. Okay. Okay.
Mary Lay: Everything. Yeah, you said next
Mary Lay: Tuesday is
Kyle Smith: The 19th, I think.
Mary Lay: Yeah, and I know that my medicine runs out on the 16th, I guess.
Kyle Smith: Yeah, no, I'm gonna, I'm going to refill your prescription
Mary Lay: Oh, okay.
Kyle Smith: To start on the 16th and until, until next week until I see you
Mary Lay: Okay, yeah.
Kyle Smith: And we're going to continue the, the, sorry. We're going to continue the 16 milligram tablets.
Daily
Kyle Smith: You call us if you have any problems. Any questions about the medications, any concerns call 911 for any
Kyle Smith: Any major emergencies. Okay, you can call the be bright heart health virtual clinic or a care Navigator. If you need help. And if you have a question for me, they can find me.
Mary Lay: And Dr. That I see every job.
Kyle Smith: Yes, ma'am.
Mary Lay: Okay, good, good.
Kyle Smith: God will and it will with the like to keep the Tennessee folks together.
Mary Lay: Yeah, there you go.
Kyle Smith: Okay, I'm actually, I'm actually, I'm in practice in Richmond, Virginia. Now, but but yeah my my folks still live in Tennessee and I consider it home.
Mary Lay: We're gonna go back no good.
Kyle Smith: I don't know. I don't know. I like it here. My wife family's from here. And so we we've been here a while.
Kyle Smith: Um, what else. Um, yeah. I mean, you, you know, you know the drill. A little bit of medicine. Little bit of counseling.
Kyle Smith: Some work at some point I think is good.
Kyle Smith: For recovery.
Yeah.
Kyle Smith: Yeah, there you go. I think that's very good. And then, you know, somebody at home that cares about you, somebody you can talk to when you're not feeling well, or you're not, you know,
Kyle Smith: Some somebody who's support at home, good good social support is is important as well.
Kyle Smith: As. How does all that sound okay it
Kyle Smith: Really does. Okay. All right. Well, I will have your, your medicine ready to be picked up on the 16th and you call us if you have any problems. Otherwise, I'll see you next Tuesday. Okay.
Mary Lay: Okay, and what do I do now.
Mary Lay: Do I hear
Kyle Smith: I think you just have to hit
Kyle Smith: End
Kyle Smith: You see,
Kyle Smith: Are you still there.
Thank you.
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Kyle Smith: See, just as as a couple comments this
Kyle Smith: Mary lays not new to medication assisted treatment. She's been on Suboxone for five years.
Kyle Smith: Has had success in the past going three years.
Kyle Smith: Without a relapse.
Kyle Smith: I expect she'll do well. I did, I did review her Tennessee controlled substance monitoring program.
Kyle Smith: Website and I did not. There were no findings.
Kyle Smith: There.
Kyle Smith: So she does say she's on my son approval and she has been prescribed Suboxone for over
Kyle Smith: A couple of years. So I expected to see that I'll run it again next week.
Kyle Smith: So that I can see my prescription
Kyle Smith: Um,
Kyle Smith: Let's see. I did review her. Let's see her dad seven and pH q nine
Kyle Smith: And
Kyle Smith: They get seven score of five.
Kyle Smith: Which is minimal anxiety indicates minimal anxiety and then the pH q nine score some of to indicating
Kyle Smith: Minimal depression.
Kyle Smith: Cows assessment score.
Kyle Smith: Indicated mile none.
Kyle Smith: No to mild
Kyle Smith: Scratch that cows assessment score was essentially three indicating mild withdrawal DSM five worksheet was done, indicating severe opiate use disorder.
Kyle Smith: She answered yes to more than she scored more than six.
Kyle Smith: On that DSM five worksheet.
Kyle Smith: We do need to get blood work, including CBC BNP lefties
Kyle Smith: urine drug screen panel urine pregnancy test.
Kyle Smith: It might be that we could reach out to
Kyle Smith: The mountain people's clinic and see if we can get
Kyle Smith: Her most recent office visit note.
Kyle Smith: And then also reach out to the Suboxone clinic there in her hometown and get her get her records from there as well.
Kyle Smith: But other than that, I plan to see her next Tuesday.
Kyle Smith: Afternoon and
Kyle Smith: Yeah, we'll go from there. Thank you.